[MUSIC]
For the second exercise,
we are going to be looking at how subtotal
interacts with any subtotals that
may already exist in the data set.
If we look at cell D82,
we will notice that this cell is
currently calculating the total sales for
the month of January by
doing a subtotal using a sum
function on the January sales data.
This is also the case for the cells below,
cell D85, D88 and D91.
If we select all of these the sales,
we will notice that this column is
a named range, labeled sales 2.
We will be using named
ranges going forward.
First, we are asked to calculate
the total number of sales
using the basic sum function.
So let's start by typing equal,
followed by sum, and
then we're going to be summing the sales,
which we know is called sales 2.
Notice how this total has changed.
It is now equal to 36,826.
Next we're going to calculate
the total number of sales.
But this time we will be using
the subtotal function to do so.
We start by typing equal
followed by subtotal.
Now from the previous exercise we remember
that sum was function number 9 in
the dropdown.
So we type 9 followed by a comma, and
then we know that we're summing
the sales data, so we type sales 2.
You will notice that the basic
sum formula is double counting
the total number of sales that
are listed in the dataset.
It's counting both the individual records,
as well as the lines that
have the subtotals in them.
However, subtotal is only calculated
in the sum for the values and
is ignoring the subtotal
fields that are in the table.
This is one of the key advantages
of the Subtotal function.
It allows you to have subtotals within
a data table and still calculate
the total without running the risk of
double counting any of the values.
[MUSIC]